Blog post "Preparing for the end of third-party cookies" (#7509)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/cookie-countdown-2023oct/index.md

---
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'
title: 'Preparing for the end of third-party cookies'
authors:
  - rowan_m
description: >
  If your site uses third-party cookies it's time to take action as we approach their deprecation. Chrome plans to disable third-party cookies for 1% of users from Q1 2024 to facilitate testing and then ramp up to 100% of users from Q3 2024. In this Cookie Countdown series, we'll guide you through the timeline and immediate actions you can take to ensure your sites are prepared.
date: 2023-10-11
thumbnail: 'image/VWw0b3pM7jdugTkwI6Y81n6f5Yc2/XeTqWn3za0aUZVGb2kUM.jpg'
alt: >
  Preparing for the end of third-party cookies
tags:
  - privacy
  - cookie-countdown
---

If your site uses third-party cookies it's time to take action as we approach their deprecation. Chrome plans to disable third-party cookies for 1% of users from Q1 2024 to facilitate testing, and then ramp up to 100% of users from Q3 2024. The ramp up to 100% of users is subject to addressing any remaining competition concerns of the [UK’s Competition and Markets Authority (CMA)](https://www.gov.uk/cma-cases/investigation-into-googles-privacy-sandbox-browser-changes).

> Our goal on the Privacy Sandbox is to reduce cross-site tracking while still enabling the functionality that keeps online content and services freely accessible by everyone. Deprecating and removing third-party cookies encapsulates the challenge, as they enable critical functionality across sign-in, fraud protection, advertising, and generally the ability to embed rich, third-party content in your sites—but at the same time they're also the key enabler of cross-site tracking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our goal with the Privacy Sandbox is to reduce cross-site tracking while still enabling the functionality that keeps online content and services freely accessible by everyone. Deprecating and removing third-party cookies encapsulates the challenge, as they enable critical functionality across sign-in, fraud protection, advertising, and generally the ability to embed rich, third-party content in your sites—but at the same time they're also the key enabler of cross-site tracking.
```

> In our previous major milestone, we launched a range of APIs providing a privacy-focused alternative to today’s status quo for use cases like identity, advertising, and fraud detection. With alternatives in place, we can now move on to beginning to phase out third-party cookies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our previous major milestone, we launched a range of APIs providing a privacy-focused alternative to today’s status quo for use cases like identity, advertising, and fraud detection. With alternatives in place, we can now move on to begin phasing out third-party cookies.
```
